### Article 1
Masahi, Kamogawa. “GPS, AIS, and More: Diversifying Tsunami Prediction Technology.” Nippon.com, 9 July 2020, www.nippon.com/en/japan-topics/g00876/. 

Although Japan has experienced countless natural disasters due to its geographical location, The Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami in particular is known to be one of the most destructive tsunamis experienced. In March of 2011, a miscalculation regarding the Tohoku earthquake (which caused the tsunami) contributed to the loss of about twenty thousand people. The problem roots in the inability to find where and how much the sea surface at the epicenter rose after the earthquake started; finding how a tsunami began is key to create simulations and calculate movement. The JMA (Japan Meteorological Agency) uses P and S waves, which are two modes of seismic wave, to observe the delay between them and generate a multitude of possibilities for a  calculated epicenter and magnitude. Basing their results on a magnitude 8 temblor, JMA concluded an underestimated magnitude of 7.9. The magnitude 9 earthquake took them by surprise, for the country experienced a tsunami of over 10m in height (3-6m difference from predicted). As a result, orders announced evacuation times longer than actually possible; the tsunami with thirty times the power they expected because of a single magnitude difference overcame existing seawalls and increased the death toll. 

### Article 2
Aoi, Shin, et al. “MOWLAS: Nied Observation Network for Earthquake, Tsunami and Volcano.” Earth, Planets and Space, Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 7 Sept. 2020, earth-planets-space.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40623-020-01250-x. 

Although extremely devastating, the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami acted as a wake-up call to scientists and sparked an improvement to prediction analysis networks and evacuation methods. The National Research and Development Agency’s National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Resilience came up with a plan to lower the death toll for future tsunamis: the Japan Trench Earthquake and Tsunami Monitoring Network (S-net). With construction starting in November 2011 and ending in March 2017, this large-scale seafloor network links 150 observatories along the Japan Trench (while also focusing on around the area of the Tohoku earthquake) in order to collect real-time data for disaster prevention. Monitoring through S-net data promotes long-term prediction of earthquakes which hence will provide reliable early earthquake and tsunami warnings. Within the S-net, seismometers, which are optical amplifier units used to measure the motion of the ground during earthquakes, are attached with two sets of voltage output accelerometers for redundancy. All of the observatories are connected to a single main cable. The S-net is favorable because everything covers an extremely wide region at a relatively low cost. 

### Article 3
日本自然災害学会. jsnds.org/jnds/34_1_1.pdf. 

After the earthquake and tsunami, social media served as a lifeline for individuals affected. The catastrophe stopped the land-line and mobile phones from working and text messages would not dispatch quickly enough due to congestion. The social environment became uncertain for those experiencing the earthquake in the present, so people turned to media outlets and depend on instantaneous information. Media outlets were also crucial for communication with friends and family about safety. Nearly all mobile phones are Internet capable, so even though the land-line was clogged people with mobile phones still could contact others virtually. Mixi is a very popular service originating in Japan that helped at the time of the disaster. They added large image links to Google Person Finder and provided the home page with links to communities related to the disaster sectioned in categories like “general”, “affected person’s support information”, “regional”, and more. Twitter also helped by publishing explanations of how to use Twitter during the disaster and hashtags. 

### Article 4
Iwasaki, Yoji. Detection of Damage to Building Side-Walls Using High ... www.researchgate.net/publication/272883672_Detection_of_damage_to_building_side-walls_using_high-resolution_satellite_SAR_images. 

In observing the disaster recovery of 2011, simple vertical optical imagery is not enough to capture images of the damaged or collapsed buildings due to the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami. About 107 thousand buildings were only collapsed (with many more damaged), so TSX intensity images were used to conduct the extraction of flooded areas and washed-away buildings. TerraSAR-X images detect the buildings that were damaged from the side-walls or lower parts and provide suitable mapping. TerraSAR-X and COSMO-SkyMed images are captured in high resolution with detailed surface information. The article displays pictures that focus specifically on the coastal zone of Tohoku, one of the more affected areas. Images displayed were captured with HH polarization, an azimuth resolution of 3.3, and a ground range resolution of 1.2 m. Other satellite images are displayed showing how preprocessing approaches were applied to find the radar reflectivity per unit area (in the ground range). This was found through a Sigma Naught value, and after finding backscattering coefficients from negative thirty to thirty dB. The mathematics behind solving for backscattering coefficients involve using matrices, tangents, and geometrical relationships to find different variables such as radar shadow areas and layover areas. 

### Questions
Amartya Sen defined human development as "enlarging people’s choices, capabilities and freedoms, so that they can live a long and healthy life, have access to knowledge, a decent standard of living, and participate in the life of their community". These articles examining pre and post March 2011 tsunami and earthquake give us help us understand how data was analyzed to make informed choices for people undergoing crises and as a result give the freedom to make said choices. In finding these articles, I asked myself the question: "How do we use data science to better disaster management and response to tsunamis in Japan?". All the authors of the four articles explore the disaster management and response dimension of human development. More specifically, they either explore the way data science has (1) caused the 2011 disaster, (2) helped build observatories to prevent future massive earthquakes alike to this one, (3) captured destroyed architecture from the catastrophe, and (4) aided humanity to utilize systems to communicate in urgent times like this. 
