10/21 Essay: After Dan's lecture, I would like to reinstill a bit of empirical optimism regrading the progress of humanity. Despite the very real difficulties data scientists, humanitarians, developers, and other leaders face, progress is being made over large time scales.
Go to this website (a supplement to Peter Diamandis's 2012 book "Abundance") which illustrates various forms of progress across multiple dimensions of human well-being. Pick a topic heading. Write a description of each of the trends you see, i.e., for each figure. Do you think each trend actually represents progress? If not, why do you think? Finally, with Dan and A. Sen in mind, what do you think could be barriers to progress in each topic? (another way to think about this is: why do you think progress hasn't occurred even more rapidly?) You have until 10:15.

I think all of the trends under the "Increased Learning & Literacy" heading do represent overall progress. As (one of the graphs that display) child labor is on the decline, we see many other graphs display an increase of many things contributing to learning. The graphs titled "Literate and illiterate world population, 1800 to 2014" and "World Literacy Rates" uses population percentage to display a clear comparison of how the illiterate world population is (very slowly) shrinking and the literate world population is growing from 1800 to 2014. This is different from the "Global Literacy Rates, 1475-2003" and the "Literacy rate" graph, which shows the massive increase over almost 6 centuries of how the literate population is growing massively. The "Average Years of Education", the "Years of Education per Person, 1820-2001", and the "Mean years of schooling" graphs show an exponential-like incline of the years of education going up for multiple countries as the years go by. The "Projection of the Total World Population by Level of Educartion, 1970-2100" and "Percent of Population Age 25 and Over by Educational Attainment 1940-2012" breaks education down into the different school levels that the population ended their education on; overtime the population of people that either got no education or ended less than high school was steadily decreasing, whereas the population of people getting a bachelor's degree or higher was steadily increasing. One graph that stood out to me that seemed unrelated at first was the "Child Labor is on the Decline" graph.  Countries that utilize child labor as a means to rid of poverty deprive the time to give children basic education. Therefore, this graph that shows child labor over the years is on a steady decline implies that more children are recieving their education. My favorite graph out of all of them 
