Human development has been described by Selim Jahan (head of the UNDP program) as “development of the people (capital), for the people (translated to the lives of people) and by the people (people are not only receiving but active participant in the process).” How have we done as a humanity to fulfill this hope originally manifested through the Gettysburg address? Does data science have a role to play in advancing the human condition? What role does complexity play in advancing our understanding of global human development processes and their multitude of dimensions? In order predict valuable solutions to some of the worlds most intractable problems, will combined domain expertise from the perspective of computer science & statistics with global human development be sufficient, or is a new integrated paradigm needed? What hope do we have in selecting the best future path for humanity?

 - Amartya Sen defined human development as “enlarging people’s choices, capabilities and freedoms, so that they can live a long and healthy life, have access to knowledge, a decent standard of living, and participate in the life of their community.” Through the growing scope of data science analytics and domain expertise in computer science and statistics, humanity is more than prepared to solve worldwide problems. As we collect more and more information about our world, data science increasingly becomes higher in demand because it provides insights and makes sense of our data. Professionals in data science have huge responsibilities, as they are supposed to not only make sense of the scattered data given, but also communicate it to other teams. Hans Rosling uses data to describe global human development and argues that publicly funded data should be sent out into the world so that we can see it and therefore make informed decisions by it. Computer science revolves around problem solving. Algorithms and machines, although created by humans, sometimes look at problems differently than humans do. Computers can predict behavior and simulate real-world problems. In regards to our understanding of global human development processes, complexity is extremely necessary when talking about human development. How are we to understand a complex world without having complex solutions? Computer and data science requires a complicated amount of research which takes us to the right direction. Selim Jahan, defines human development as “development of the people, for the people, and by the people”, and humanity has only just started to progress in it. 


