9/30 essay: Go to the Gapminder data site (founded by Hans Rosling). The x and y axes can be changed with the little arrows. The year can be changed with the slider at the bottom. You can even have the plot play through time. Each bubble represents a nation and can be selected and deselected in the right panel. There’s a two-minute “How to” video at the top as well.

Pick at least one configuration (life expectancy vs income in the UK and Cuba over the past 80 years, for example). Try any combination(s) you like (no wrong answers here). Write what data you are displaying. Write about what you see or what surprises you, if anything. As best you can, connect what you see to ideas in previous readings from Rosling, West, Sen, another course, or from your experience.

I decided to explore child mortality vs GDP per capita (based on purchasing power parity) in 2003. I explicitly picked this keeping in mind the Hans Rosling video I watched, which explored how the data collected in exploring the child survival rate and GDP per capita showed that the differences amongst countries overcome the weakness of the data. Since the video was relatively old, I wanted to see how the relationship has changed over the years. I decided to play with the slider on the Gapminder data along the years of 2003 to 2018, since Rosling’s video went over how the graph shifted from 1960 to 2003. The child mortality and GDP per capita graph appeared to be negatively sloping, which makes sense in accordance with the positively sloping child survival rate and GDP per capita curve. At first glance, the child mortality graph being exponential in comparison to the linear child survival rate graph threw me off, but then it occurred to me that it is quite impossible for the graph to continue being linear overtime; the graph had to level off at some point. In the video, he talks about this relationship being an awfully large difference amongst continents, for example sub-saharan Africa. I first clicked to compare these countries like Mauritius, Ghana and Sierra Leone, and then went to compare South Asia countries India, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka; the data proved as he said (signifying the importance of data). 
