11/2 Essay: Since this is a course on human development, I think you should be aware there exists a "Human Development Index (HDI)". This index attempts to quantify the level of human development of a country. It was developed by Pakistani economist Mahbub ul Haq and Indian Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) compiles the HDI of 189 countries in their annual Human Development Report. You can see the latest rankings here. It attempts to place people at the center of the development process in terms of economic debate, policy, and advocacy, and is framed in terms of whether people are able to "be" and "do" desirable things in life. The indicators used in the 2020 report were life expectancy at birth, expected years of schooling for children, mean years of schooling for adults, and gross national income per capita. These indicators are used to create a health index, an education index, and an income index, each with a value between 0 and 1. Read this for an overview.
Do you think additional information or data could be added to the HDI calculation to possibly improve it or make it a more accurate measurement of human development? If yes, what things? If no, why no? Keep in mind the conversation with Tyler Cowen. You have until 10:05.

The Human Development Index (HDI) computes a number in between 0 and 1 to measure the level of human development amongst 189 countries. However, this only acknowledges three factors of a country: health, education, and income. I completely understand that human development facets have to be simplified down for efficiency reasons, but I think it is more crucial for the system to be more accurate but more complex than less accurate and easy to understand. That said, there is much more to consider about the human development of a country, and this is flawed because it does not consider the subfactors that lead to a final health/education/income, more specifically different types of discrimination that can happen in any country. Racial and gender discrimination in countries probably affect the income and therefore would not be considered an accurate representation of a country. Also, by the way the system is weighted, if the gap between certain factors is big enough, one may seriously have a massive effect on the entire average. For example, if poverty were to effect the income that much, it would weight so much on the entire average. Therefore, I think that, instead of the system being split into thirds, they should be split into smaller bits so that other smaller factors can be considered. With that, I think that they should definitely be weighted differently, since they all don't have as equal of an effect on each other. 
