10/7 Essay: I want to introduce you to another source of sociology-focused data: Our World in Data, founded by Max Roser.
Select a topic you are curious about from the dropdown "Articles by topic". Technological Progress, for example. If the topic is lengthy, you can pick just a graph or two.
Two cool things about the site are (1) there are concise descriptions of the topics, definitions of terms, and references; and (2) most ( if not all) the plots have their data available for download as a csv. Their COVID plots are some of the best and up-to-date. This one, for example is robust with its many metrics, but it's simple and easy to manipulate as well.
Similar to 9/30's essay, write what topic (or graph(s)) you are looking at. Describe what you see. Are there trends? If so, what are they? Does anything surprise you? Where possible, connect what you see to previous readings, discussions, or your experiences. You have until 10:15.

    I decided to look into pre-primary education, more specifically looking at the gender gaps between different countries. To start, I observed the graph analyzing the share of students in pre-primary education who are female (2016). North America, South America was primarily 2020, but Asia, Europe, and Australia tended to have a shortage of females whereas Africa mainly had a majority female population in pre-primary education. Right after, I looked at the school life expectancy at the pre-primary education level (2015) and noticed some correlations. On average, 2-3 years was the year expectancy for a child to spend in pre-primary education in Europe and Asia, whereas 0-1 was the expected number of years. I can only assume this is because children, mainly females, in Africa are expected to help with housework rather than spend time on school; their mothers and family expect males to focus more on their education than the females. I then scrolled to look at the gross vs. net enrollment rate (2016) to find a graph that further proved my point; African countries like Madagascar, Ethiopia, Zimbabwe had much lower rates and ratios than those of other countries. One thing that surprised me was that the school life expectancy which specifically compared boys and girls was a linear graph with a slope of about one. This means that the school life expectancy of females tended to be about the same for males.
    I then proceeded to observe the behavior of teachers around the world. In the graph explaining the pupil-teacher ratio in pre-primary education, Africa seemed to have more countries that had more students than teachers. Many questions stood out to me, such as what was the reason as to why the life expectancy for students at the pre-primary education level in Africa was much less than other countries? I believe that students in the continent were pushed quickly in and out of school so they could work, and the pressure for females was specifically much harder due to these graphs.
