11/9 Essay: Read this November 2nd article on a change in use of facial recognition technology by Meta (formerly Facebook) (hat tip to Arthur). What are your general thoughts on government and private company utilization of technologies that are able to recognize a face and/or match a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces? What advantages or benefits could/do such technologies provide? What role (if any) should a government play in regulating their use by individuals or companies? You have until 10:05.


At first glance, the companies ability to recognize a face from a digital image or video seems like a brilliant idea; impersonation and other identity misuses can be put to a halt. However, this is ideal and not the case, there are many disadvantages that outweight the benefits, for one, the complete violation and threat to privacy. Holding a database with a gallery of millions of faces can lead to many malicious intentions, such as profiting off of other companies and governments who want access to their files. Two, technology cannot be completely correct all the time, which can literally destroy people's lives. The article says that researchers and activists are "citing studies that found it worked unevenly across boundaries of race, gender or age". American policing actually has history of utilizing facial recognition to track down and falsely accuse many black individuals who are at risk to being misidentified due to to technology miscalculations. It is crucial to understand that facial structure is something that cannot be altered, and when found and kept, can lead to serious invasions of privacy and vulnerabilities. In the case of America, we live an a land where laws are enforced thouroughly and followed apparently, so in our case, I think it is the ideal that the government should take responsibility and regulate a law that explicitly states terms regarding facial recognition. This will then set the standard for companies to abide by these rules and face serious reprucussions if rejected. 
