## Methodological Investigation

Japan is known for being one of the more extremely vulnerable and accident-prone countries in the world (Rauhala). From facing the Asian monsoon climate region, which is one of the most vigorous climatic phenomena on Earth due to constant rainfall and typhoons, (Clift) to suffering through constant earthquakes due to its location along the Ring of Fire (where many tectonic plates meet) (MOJA), Japan has learned to get acclimated to their environment. Although urbanization and population concentration are impediments to their own improvement, Japan was able to better their evacuation systems and as a result become one of the leading countries in disaster improvement (Rauhala). In the many catastrophe incidents that the country has faced over the centuries, how has Japan properly filtered which utilized methods were the best fit? With this we pose the broad central research question: “How do we use data science to better disaster management and response to tsunamis in Japan?” We will begin to start and answer this question by first looking at the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami in March of 2011. Miscalculations regarding the Tohoku earthquake contributed to the loss of about twenty thousand people which caused a revelation amongst many people. The Japan Trench Earthquake and Tsunami Monitoring Network (the S-net) and the utilization or effectiveness of social media in the East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami are dissimilar yet suitable examples of data science methods that emerged from the tragedy. 

At the time of the disaster Japan misidentified where and how much the sea surface at the epicenter rose after the earthquake started, which is crucial for creating simulations and calculating movement. The JMA (Japan Meteorological Agency) uses P and S waves, which are two modes of seismic wave, to observe the delay between them and generate a multitude of possibilities for a calculated epicenter and magnitude. Basing their results on a magnitude 8 temblor, JMA concluded an underestimated magnitude of 7.9. Additionally, although there was dense networks of observation stations on land in Japan (since the 1995 Kobe earthquake) there were only 45 stations in the sea, which also aided in the incorrect magnitude assumption.  The magnitude 9 earthquake took them by surprise, for the country experienced a tsunami of over 10m in height (3-6m difference from predicted). As a result, orders announced evacuation times longer than actually possible; the tsunami with thirty times the power they expected because of a single magnitude difference overcame existing seawalls and increased the death toll (Kamogawa). Scientists came to the realization that near-field tsunami warnings that were determined only on seismometers placed on the land have notable limitations regarding its lead time and precision for tsunami height estimations, one of the most important lessons learned from the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami is that there was an insufficient number observation stations that were offshore.

The National Research and Development Agency’s National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Resilience came up with a data science method to lower the death toll for future tsunamis: the Japan Trench Earthquake and Tsunami Monitoring Network (also called the S-net). With construction starting in November 2011 and ending in March 2017, this incredibly successful large-scale seafloor network links 150 observatories along the Japan Trench (while also focusing on around the area of the Tohoku earthquake) in order to collect real-time data for disaster prevention. Monitoring through S-net data promotes long-term prediction of earthquakes which hence will provide reliable early earthquake and tsunami warnings. Within the S-net, seismometers, which are optical amplifier units used to measure the motion of the ground during earthquakes, are attached with two sets of voltage output accelerometers for redundancy. All of the observatories are connected to a single main cable. With the S-net, everything covers an extremely wide region at a relatively low cost (Shin) and gathers data that is not only in real time, but also information that hasn’t been given in the past land-based observations (Mochizuki). 

MOWLAS was created for possible natural disasters including earthquakes, tsunamis, and volcanoes which includes the seven main nationwide observation networks.

The first image displays the four land earthquake observation networks (Hi-net, K-NET, KiK-net, and F-net), two seafloor earthquake and tsunami observation networks (S-net and DONET), and a volcano observation network (V-net). With S-net covering a vast offshore portion of the ocean, it is expected to contribute the most to detecting these catastrophic incidents (Shin). Going more in depth, the second photo shows examples of forecast accuracies for coastal tsunami heights associated with earthquakes of magnitude Mw 7.7, 8.4, and 9.1, at 12 locations of interest. The data was proved to be exponentially better, accuracy increased with the s-net as more and more data was generated. 

The intersection between data science and social media is unexpectedly strong; during the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami, social media served as a lifeline for individuals affected. The catastrophe stopped the land-line and mobile phones from working and text messages would not dispatch quickly enough due to congestion. The social environment became uncertain for those experiencing the earthquake in the present, so people turned to media outlets and depend on instantaneous information. Media outlets were also crucial for communication with friends and family about safety. Nearly all mobile phones are Internet capable, so even though the land-line was clogged people with mobile phones still could contact others virtually. Mixi is a very popular service originating in Japan that helped at the time of the disaster. They added large image links to Google Person Finder and provided the home page with links to communities related to the disaster sectioned in categories like “general”, “affected person’s support information”, “regional”, and more. Twitter also helped by publishing explanations of how to use Twitter during the disaster and hashtags. 

People that utilized social media were identified into different groups due to their receiver-sender relationships: basic senders are those sending on an individual basis, volunteer senders are those sending through cooperation with others, manager senders are sending while leading a group volunteer, and non-senders are basically receivers who chose not to send.

In order to analyze the importance of social media, certain individuals present were asked to take some multiple choice surveys. The first one checks what types of tools related to social media were utilized during the disaster. The second one examines the reasons for utilizing social media to recieve information. The last one identifies the problems when using social media during this disaster. With this kind of graphical information, we have been able to root out what individuals were most handy and what form of social media communication has been most advantageous (Brett).

Although there was only a slight touch on how there were some issues with the data science methods used during the earthquake, one way I could have strengthened my research is by analyzing the ways data science has failed during this disaster. If I had enough information to do so and (for example) explicitly went over how the S-net was problematic, I could have built up a better argument on how the network observatories benefitted from the mistake. All in all, my research question was able to be answered through the use of my two main sources, since they explain the methods used to figure out what caused the 2011 disaster and aid to provide possible future methods to analyze situations alike to this. 



Loon, R. V. (2021, June 6). The intersection of Data Science and Social Media. Simplilearn.com. Retrieved October 25, 2021, from https://www.simplilearn.com/intersection-of-data-science-and-social-media-article. 

Makinoshima, F., Oishi, Y., Yamazaki, T., Furumura, T., &amp; Imamura, F. (2021, April 15). Early forecasting of tsunami inundation from Tsunami and geodetic observation data with convolutional neural networks. Nature News. Retrieved October 25, 2021, from https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-22348-0. 

Masahi, Kamogawa. “GPS, AIS, and More: Diversifying Tsunami Prediction Technology.” Nippon.com, 9 July 2020, www.nippon.com/en/japan-topics/g00876/.
Mochizuki, M. (n.d.). S-net project: Performance of a large-scale seafloor observation network for preventing and reducing seismic and tsunami disasters. IEEE Xplore. Retrieved October 25, 2021, from https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8558823. 

P. D. Clift, A. H. (2021, September 29). Evolution of the asian monsoon. Eos. Retrieved October 24, 2021, from https://eos.org/science-updates/evolution-of-the-asian-monsoon. 

Peary, Brett. "Utilization of Social Media in the East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and its Effectiveness." 12 July 2012. jsnds.org/jnds/34_1_1.pdf.
Rauhala, E. (2011, March 11). How Japan became a leader in disaster preparation. Time. Retrieved October 24, 2021, from http://content.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2058390,00.html. 

Tulane University. (n.d.). What is Disaster Management: Prevention and Mitigation. What Is Disaster Management: Prevention and Mitigation. Retrieved October 25, 2021, from https://publichealth.tulane.edu/blog/what-is-disaster-management/. 

View of social media use and goals after the Great East japan earthquake: First Monday. View of Social media use and goals after the Great East Japan Earthquake | First Monday. (n.d.). Retrieved November 21, 2021, from https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/4071/3285. 
