1. Truncated lightning round questions: #1. What was the toaster project? What Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful and what is the significant of this example in the context of complexity and development?
 - He thought that he could make an electric toaster from scratch by taking apart a cheap toaster he bought and replicating each piece. Technically, he was successful for the five seconds he plugged it in until it exploded. His overall failure exemplifies that development is "not an increase in output by an individual firm, rather it is the emergence of a system of economic, financial, legal, social, political institurions, firms, products, and technologies" which together provides for the citizens to live good lives.

2. According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  How did he use the Harrod-Domar model, the Solow model, the Washington consensus and the Ajoakuta Steel works to illustrate his point (reference at least two of the above).
 - Economic models have not been very successful at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years. The Harrod-Domar model, created after WWII, is based on the fact that a firm increases its output if it can increase the amount of capital it uses and the amount of labor it uses. Therefore, you needed more capital or more labor, and developing countries were lacking capital. Robert Solow came up with the Neoclassical growth theory (the Solow Model), introducing a third component on top of labor and capital: (exogenous) technical change. We don't know where this technical change comes from. This isn't technically a model, but instead it's a form of accounting, breaking growth down into increases in labor and capital and unexplained components. 

3. Who was Steve Jones? What did he do at uni-lever? Was he successful?  Specifically what did he do in order to make an evolutionary jump forward?  How significant were his results?
 - Steve Jones used to work in a factory-making soap powder. Once mixing the right chemicals in liquid form, you force the mixture out through a spray nozzle, making it crystalize and sellable. He was responsible for making that nozzle. He made ten different copies of the original and randomly distorted and tested them, then took the best one and repeated this process many times. They came up with a very distorted nozzle that works extremely well, yet no one can explain why it works hundred of times more efficiently than the expected 20% improvement. This relates to adaptive change in the sense that it does not just bring about small improvents, rather game-changing jumps to new solutions. 

4. Who was Haile Sellasie?  What is the significance of Kapuscinski’s book, The Emporer?  According to Barder, how did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change?  How do you think Sen would have described this suppression? Do you agree?
 - Haile Selassie was the emperor of Ethiopia until 1974 when he was overthrown. His reign was told as a "dark fairytale": all decisions came from emperor, it was dangerous to tell emperor abut starvation and poverty on the countryside, and so suppressing any efforts to move towards a more inclusive and political society which might threaten his position. Amartya Sen, who believed that enlarging the choices, capabilities, and freedoms of people so they can live a long and healthy life was the definition of development, would have 
