[Video](https://www.ted.com/talks/hans_rosling_the_best_stats_you_ve_ever_seen?language=en)
1. What was Hans Rosling's observation regarding his comparative survey of students at the Karolinska Institute and the Chimpanzees (as well as the faculty who decide the Nobel Prize)? What is the significance of the results from his informal survey on preconceived ideas?
- He realized late at night that these students technically knew statistically less about the world than chimpanzees after giving the students a pre-test in order to test their knowledge before the course. He saw that the average was 1.8 right (give or take .4) out of 5 points possible, whereas the chimpanzees would on average score 2.5 out of 5 if he gave them two bananas with Sri Lanka and Turkey. He did the same test with the faculty who decided on the Nobel Prize, and came to the realization that there was really a need to communicate what's happening in these countries to the world and data needs to be more spread.  
4. What type of change took place in Asia that preceded economic growth? Why was this type of change significant?
5. In accordance with Hans Rosling’s TED talk, what is the relationship between child mortality and GDP per capita?
6. In terms of income distribution, how has the world changed from 1962 until 2003?
7. What is the significance of how Hans Rosling uses data to describe global human development in terms of very high spatial and temporal resolutions? How does this relate to his previous observation regarding preconceived ideas?
8. In your opinion, why was Hans Rosling’s work with the Gapminder project significant in contributing towards advancing the intersection of data science and global human development?
