11/16 Essay (last one): Read the ~8 minute article "The Data Science Behind Self-Driving Cars" (hat tip to Connor). In 1-2 paragraphs, write what you think (or know) are the broad implications for society from the development and adoption of self-driving vehicle technology. What are the positive aspects, the not so positive, and the important considerations (e.g., ethical)? You have until 10:05.

The idea of self-driving cars seemed like science fiction a decade ago, (according to the article) but the fact that technology has actually progressed so far to create these autonomous vehicles recently is extraordinary and soon to be fully momentuous, especially with 600,000 lives predicted to be saved in twenty years. Not only can many positive aspects can be thought of with this drastic change, but there are some negative truths that will come with this. To start, I will consider one social and one economic benefit: safety and cost-saving. Safety is one obvious aspect that will be improved because car crashes will decrease because human error was greately minimized. As a result, car crash costs will be significantly decreased. 

However, the negative aspects are extremely important to consider, especially the ones with more ethical issues and dilemmas. Economically, many people are prone to lose their jobs from this new advencement. As the article says, the car is able "to simulate the human brain and its cognitive networks" through its video cameras, ultrasonic and radar sensors, and more. Places like New York City will have so many people that suffer due to the many taxi drivers there that will have their jobs replaced by these self-driving cars. Although these kinds of issues need to be addressed, the most critical situations are the ethical dilemmas that are encountered in self-driving cars. The article goes into dept about algorithms that master "Perception, Localization, Prediction, Planning, and Control" and how AI and machine learning is used to cycle though and interpret data. These algorithms are extremely important due to the detail because cars will have to be making important decisions when encountering problems on the road. What if a car doesn't make the most morally correct decision due to bad judgement when it comes to facing life or death situations?
