11/4 Essay: We have five reading/watching slots left on our schedule. I'm looking to replace one that's there now I think is on the weaker side (Thursday 11/18) and I want your help. What topic haven't we discussed (or will discuss) within the realm of data science and/or human development that you would like covered and discussed in class? Is there a particular video or reading you are aware of that you like or think is valuable that you want the rest of the class to see/read? Briefly explain your thoughts and provide a link, if applicable. I will read your responses later today. You have until 10:05.

I would really like to learn about how data science has been helpful recently, specifically during covid. For my main project, one of the topics I was actually considering was the data science behind exploring the corona virus, but I felt that there wasn't enough information and proper research out yet for me to fully grasp what was going on. A possible method of discussion for this class is splitting the class to thirds, having each group read how one of the three vaccines Johnson-Johnson, Pfizer, or Moderna used data science to fight off the pandemic. First they would discuss seperately, then have all of us come together to compare and contrast. Here is an article for the Johnson-Johnson vaccine that I found: https://www.jnj.com/innovation/how-johnson-johnson-uses-data-science-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic. This is a link for understanding data science in pfizer: https://spectrum.ieee.org/pfizer-covid-vaccines-data-science. Lastly, here's a link for seeing data science through the moderna vaccine: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/audio/ai-and-the-covid-19-vaccine-modernas-dave-johnson/. (The last two links are interviews.) I think this could be a great way to get the class involved and to keep us updated on recent events. Even after this class, I would like to see other data science methods that develop and form. 
