10/12 Essay: Read this press article on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a Chinese global infrastructure development plan. What are your thoughts, or more saliently, what questions do you have or what would you want to know/learn more about? What responsibilities do you think the international community should have (if any) on such matters? You have until 10:10.

China’s massive hidden debt, which “carries interest rates four times higher than offered by other bilateral lenders and maturity periods of a third as long” seems to interfere with their trillion-dollar investment towards their Belt and Road Initiative. The project seems awfully ambitious; an addition to affluent China when there are already $843 billion in Chinese loans since 2000. This belt initiative would cultivate and boost income that was not necessary now. If their debt burden continues to grow how will they be able to sustain? Not only do we wonder how they will be able to run, but President Biden of the United States calls China out, speaking on how they could potentially damage other countries through their infrastructure plans, resulting in environmental degradation. In countries like Ethiopia where they have already attempted to start a China-built road, the host is hopeless and is barely satisfied with “at least” a road and a bus. I wish this article had expanded on their plan to get rid of this debt, rather than just relying on the words of Mr. Xi. Most specifically, if I were to research this more, I would read up about China’s consistency in pursuing their three goals (turning dollar haul into foreign loans, building projects abroad, and receiving oil and grain for stopping domestic shortfalls). Understanding their future plan may give better insight into how they will be financially stable enough to follow through with this Belt and Road Infrastructure Plan.
