11/11 Essay: Read this October 2020 article from UPenn that's a set of statements by faculty from a broad array of fields on the ways in which data and data science are contributing to or affecting their field with respect to COVID and the pandemic (hat tip to Rhea).
Write 1-2 paragraphs on the following: From what you know about your prospective major, what is a permanent or semi-permanent way the pandemic has affected your field of study or an aspect of culture or society related to your field? Do you believe the change is a net-positive or negative for society and why? What recommendations (if any) would you have for your field moving forward on the issue? You have until 10:05.

I feel like computer science is particularly helpful in understanding this pandemic, more specifically artificial intelligence, particularly artificial intelligence. Disease spreading is incredibly complex, and so currently, computers are generating real-time predictions of the spread of COVID-19. Only models based on statistical data can use mathematics to project treatments and vaccines. Even this article states that COVID was able to be properly examined due to huge datasets "along with advances in computing power and the analytical methods". Also, because computer science is technically a part of data science, it "combines expertise in computer programming, math, and statistics to help researchers and scholars make sense of large datasets. With this new acquired knowledge gained from studying this pandemic, the realm of artificial intelligence amongst computer science will be more adept than before, which would be considered a net-positive for society. Although I do critique the amount of time it took to gather the data used to create the vaccine, I do not have any reccomendations for it cculd not have bene done any other way.    
