At one point, I was considering majoring in data science, but after much exploration, I am leaning towards majoring in computer science. My past research made me understand the realms of computer science and data science, and they overlap quite a bit. Although the question asks “how these disciplines (referring to my major, computer science) could possibly be used in your field”, I think of it more as interchangeable since both could be used as subfields of each other. 

For one, I could look at computer science as a subfield of data science; studying computer science specifically would lead to specialization in the Machine Learning domain as listed in the reading, one of the three parts of the data science realm. The article actually goes in depth about the Machine Learning domain, explaining how it overlaps with statistics and “shares some algorithms with statistics, such as linear and logistic regression”. It is without saying that computers need to be programmed to perform any of these complicated tasks and analyses of data science. These said algorithms are what computer scientists are actually interested in, for they could be focused on the efficiency of the algorithms and proper technological models that would fit with the data analyzed. 

However, I could also see data science as a subfield of computer science. Data science has only relatively recently been developing, whereas computer science has been a very familiar branch of science for a long time. Computer science covers the entirety of the field of technology, and data science can also be seen as an analysis and study of the data in computer science. Therefore, it can only be fair to say that data science emerged (as a branch) due to the past advances in the field of computer science. Regarding degrees, many master’s in computer science offer data science classes and many degrees for data science require one to be well-versed in computer science, all because they consider data science as a specialization of computer science.
